Client: 

My clients are those employees of Kaplan Test Prep who are involved in the planning,
scheduling, and evaluation of specific student facing session types (referred to as 
either Flex or Channel sessions) and include members of the Digital Media team, the 
Graduate Programs Business Unit, and the Executive Leadership.

I hope to provide a simple, easy to use interface that enables these users to better 
understand the data we collect about these sessions.


Central Question: 

Can we distill the main theme(s), for each Flex or Channel session type, of survey 
feedback comments for that session type? 


Question Breakdown:

Is it possible to cluster similar feedback comments for specific session types and 
derive central themes?
Is it possible to identify whether a feedback comment is positive or negative first
and use this information to further refine our themes?


Data: 
	a. Data will be survey responses collected from Flex and Channel Session attendees 
	from Feb 2013 through October 2014.  This data is stored in our Adobe Connect LMS.

	b. Data is routinely pulled from our Adobe Connect LMS (daily) and imported into a 
	SQL database maintained by the Kaplan Data Science team.  The process of pulling the
	data from Adobe Connect involves:
		i. Obtaining a list of sessions run the previous day from our business systems
		API
		ii. For each session run obtain the list of all transactions made in the Adobe 
		Connect room associated with that session.
		iii. For each transaction obtain a list of questions and responses made for that
		transaction.
		iv. Every question/response pair is stored as one record
	For this project, the data was exported from the SQL database into a CSV file.

	c. There have been ~72,000 comments submitted during the time frame of Feb 2013 
	through October 2014.

	d. The data was imported from the CSV file into a Mongo Database collection.


Analysis: 

Each comment will be assigned a sentiment polarity score using a Naive Bayes Analyzer
trained on IMDB movie review data.  Data will be segmented into lists based on polarity
with a the final data sets being:
	1) All negative comments
	2) All positive comments
	3) All polar comments (neutral comments are not included)

The user will be able to determine which data set is used for clustering.  The data set
will then have all stop-words removed and be vectorized into a matrix of TF-IDF scores 
for single words and digrams.  

At this point a DBSCAN clustering algoritm is employed to calculate the clusters.  The 
centroids of these clusters are used as the main themes.


Deliverable: 

The main deliverable is a web application that allows users to select what session type
they want to cluster as well as the polarity of the data set they want to explore.  Users
will also have the ability to filter for only comments made after a certain date to 
reduce both computation time and the inclusion of older, possibly irrelevant comments.
Finally, some rude controls to calibrate the sensitivity of the algorithm will be 
provided.


Challenges: 

A major challenge is building a sentiment analyzer that is able to accurately categorize
the feedback comments.  The one used in this project is fairly accurate, but does 
misclassify many comments.
Another major challenge comes in the form of limitations to the size of the data set 
we are able to cluster with DBSCAN in the implementation I need to use.  Being able to 
limit the data to a more recent date range as well as to a specific sentiment polarity 
are two methods used to overcome this limitation. 